+++
date = 2015-07-03
title = "HIS 2015 is over"
description = "Prague has hosted global conference on human presence in space"
slug ="his-2015-over.en"
[taxonomies]
categories = ["en"]
tags = ["uzivatele-verejnost","typy-clanku-komentar-udalosti","typy-clanku-informace-o-cso","typy-clanku-zprava-z-akce-cso","programy-organizace-iaa"]
[extra]
author = "Kristýna Šaarová"
popisky = ["Final thanking to the participants and organizers of the Humans in Space Symposium 2015.","Coffee breaks of the Humans in Space Symposium 2015 were filled by numerous discussions.","Humans in Space Symposium 2015 in Prague.","Jan Kolář, ředitel České kosmické kanceláře, zahajuje Humans in Space Symposium 2015 v Praze.","Press conference by the beginning of HIS 2015.","Participants of the Humans in Space Symposium in front of the Hotel Diplomat in Prague.","Fengyuan Zhuang and Yulin Deng with the organizer Michal Václavík before the closing ceremony."]
+++

Prague, July 3 2015 - Today has finished 20th international Humans in Space Symposium 2015, which had been organized by the Czech Space Office (CSO) and the International Academy of Astronautics (IAA). In the Prague Diplomat Hotel there were more than 170 world experts on human spaceflights discussing the future challenges. During the week, there were a total of 27 specialized sections with 117 presentations. Throughout the week there was also accessible the poster session in the foyer with 33 posters that were made predominantly by students and young scientists. "Humans in Space Symposium 2015 has reflected current trends in the space research. Specialized sections were focused both on a long-term studied areas, as well as the relatively new problems related to plans for manned spaceflight beyond low-Earth orbit and presence of a human on other space objects. The contributions were mainly focused on the radiation environment, health effects of microgravity on the human body, psychological aspects of long-term coexistence of crews and technical support of missions," summarizes the content of HIS 2015 Michal Václavík from the Czech Space Office, who was also the organizer of the Symposium. The whole week was carried out in a friendly atmosphere which prevailed both during the professional program, as well as within the accompanying social events. "Through the whole Symposium there has been depicted the need and necessity of international cooperation that is done by deepening existing relationships and also by creating the new ones. Even in the closing speech of representatives of major space agencies and organizations there was clearly emphasized this idea," Jan Kolář reminds of one of the reasons for organizing the Symposium. Among the participants of the Symposium there have been 12 scientists from the Czech Republic who ended up on the fifth place in the statistics of amount of the participants from each country. First places went to the Russian Federation, Germany, the United States and China, that are world leaders in space research. For the Czech Republic spoke for example Carlos Granja, whose contribution had been on the topic of monitoring and studying of cosmic rays near the Earth and Iva Šolcová, who introduced the issue of the impact of prolonged isolation on the work and performance of closed groups of people in the experiment Mars 500. Significant role in the smooth running of the Symposium played high school and university students who had worked as volunteers and thanks to that had the opportunity to meet leading experts and also the astronauts Dumitru Prunariu, Reinhold Ewald and Leroy Chiao.

{{ galerie() }}
