+++
date = 2012-11-13
title = "ARES"
description = "Operational data off-line analysis, correlation and reporting system"
slug ="ares.en"
[taxonomies]
categories = ["en"]
tags = ["programy-organizace-gstp","typy-clanku-tiskovina","programy-organizace-esa","uzivatele-firmy","typy-clanku-ukonceny-projekt","uzivatele-vedci"]
[extra]
author = ""
popisky = ["ARES-Spacecraft event display.","ARES-Graph view.","ARES-Telecommands display.","ARES-Data consolidation view."]
+++

User friendly system for working with satellite data Project duration: 2010 to 2012 Project manager: Helena Kalenská The Mission Control System infrastructure at the European Space Operations Centre (ESA/ESOC) supports storage of mission operations data in dedicated archives. The existing generic user applications for retrieval and visualisation of this data did not adequately support data post-processing and correlation between heterogeneous data (e.g. telecommands, events, monitoring parameters, configuration variables). Therefore the GSTP activity ARES was launched with the goal to design and develop a pre-operational system for off-line analysis, correlation, and reporting of such mission operations data. The developed ARES system is able to import data from various mission data archives, create diverse statistics, produce analysis and correlations, and visualise the resulting data in user friendly formats - tables, graphs, exported files. The ARES system supports large storage data capacities allowing efficient and concurrent access to mission operations data like Telemetry parameters, TeleCommand history, TeleCommand acceptance/failure status, Spacecraft events, and events generated by the Mission Control System SCOS-2000. ARES has been developed in cooperation with Siemens Austria. The fully operational version is planned to be used for the ESA Gaia mission. Siemens Convergence Creators The company is the global partner for communication demands within a broad range of market segments. It stands for innovative products, turnkey solutions, and services in the fields of communication networks, service and customer management, public security, multi-media infotainment, and aerospace technologies. The Space department in the Czech Republic was established in 1998 and has been involved in developing various software solutions for the European Space Agency (ESA), the German Space Agency (DLR), the European navigation system Galileo, as well as for leading satellite operators. It has a longstanding expertise in executing complex international projects related to satellite communications and ground segment solutions. Siemens Convergence Creators, s.r.o., formerly ANF DATA spol. s r.o., is an affiliated company of Siemens. What would you name as main benefits of the project to you and your company? “The ARES system was developed in close cooperation with future user groups, namely operators of various ESA missions. This was very interesting and inspiring experience. Regular demonstrations of the developed software (SCRUM approach was used) and intermediate feedback from the end users of the system helped us to understand their specific requirements and deliver system that fulfils their needs.”

{{ galerie() }}

**Attachments:**
[Factsheet ARES]

[Factsheet ARES]: csofactsheets-ares-web.pdf
